10. Project overview

In this section, we'll build and deploy a flashcards web application.

I think this can be a cool little project for anyone trying to improve their skills.

Learn a new language or maybe prepare for an exam.

Along the way, we'll learn some of the key ideas behind coding.

Throughout the section, we will be using cursor, an AI powered IDE.

And to follow along you will need to be on the free Pro trial which lasts two weeks or have the paid

Pro plan.

This section will help build a strong foundation for working with AI coding tools.

Even though we're using cursor, the concepts we'll learn like working step by step, writing specifications,

and testing our code can be applied easily to other tools as well.

So if cursor doesn't suit your needs or feels too expensive, no worries.

Actually, what we're learning here is still going to be useful.

So here's what we'll do together in this section.

We're going to start by creating a software specification to guide our project which will build flashcards

web application.

After the specification we'll also make a plan in the form of a to do list Just to stay organized.

And we will work in an iterative way, improving the app step by step.

And to make sure that we don't lose any changes, we're going to use git to version our code.

And because we don't want to run manual tests, every time we make a small change to the application,

we're going to write and run simple tests to ensure that the application is working properly.

Apart from this, we'll also learn how to write rules that I needs to follow and also explore some more

advanced features like Amqp, which lets the I interact with other tools and services.

You're going to see that building this app is going to be fun, but sometimes also challenging.

So if you ever get stuck or have questions, check the Q&A section below each lecture or reach out directly

through a private message.

I'm here to help you move forward and make fast progress.

Before we start this section, make sure that you have the following installed and up and running.

You will need cursor, Node.js and git.

If anything is missing, you will find setup instructions in the resources folder.

And with that being said, let's get started.