15. Iterating with new features

So let's continue with building features.

We are now at phase two of our project, and there's still a lot of work that needs to be done.

So in this lecture we're going to go ahead and create the next two features that are being listed here.

Essentially what we want to see is a flash card being displayed.

So I'm going to use the following prompt, which you're going to find as a resource to this lecture,

which instructs the agent to build the first two features listed under the phase two.

So this is the plan.

And we're going to follow along and see exactly what is happening.

Now the agent reports that these features have been built.

And we should usually go over and see exactly what the AI is telling us, but you can also directly

jump into the application.

I'm going to go ahead into study mode.

What we're going to see here is again, some UI issues.

Instead of getting a proper list, we're going to get again this broken UI.

Okay.

Anyway let's click on animals And we're going to see absolutely nothing here.

If you click on food, we're going to see nothing.

And if you click on verbs we're going to see nothing.

So not sure exactly what is the problem.

I think the problem is a lack of data.

And I'm going to ask the AI and report this to issues that I found after this manual test.

So let's go ahead and see if the agent manages to figure out the two issues that I found after this

manual test.

Okay.

So we've been instructed to check the browser again.

So let's go ahead and do exactly that.

I'll select animals.

And now what we're going to see here is a card.

So El Perro is a dog or the dog.

So we have that.

Perfect.

Let's go to the next card.

El Gato is the cat.

So this seems to be working properly.

We can go back to the categories.

Okay.

The UI is not great, but is definitely acceptable.

And we can say okay, now we have built this additional feature.

It seems to be working properly.

What we're going to see here again in the to do list is this mess.

Because we're going to get here a diff.

And what we want to do at this point is again accept all.

And then we're going to see exactly what has been built.

So from phase two we see that these two first items have been built and we have tested this.

We are happy with what we're seeing.

So all we need to do is simply also go ahead and commit the changes.

And the agent is going to figure out a commit message is going to stage those files.

We can also add the git directly as one of these commands that can be executed.

Like to take a quick look and see exactly what is being executed here.

So we're going to see here the commit.

And this is the commit message saying that phase two or part of phase two has been implemented.

And now this is pretty much done in terms of implementing this particular part of the application.