2. AI-powered coding tools

This course tries to teach you the skills you need to know, regardless of the tools you decide to use.

And talking about that, currently there's an explosion of tools in this space.

It is just incredibly hard to keep track of all of them.

But in this lecture, I'm going to give you a bit of orientation so that at least you know which tools

work best for you.

If you're getting started and have no experience installing DevTools on your computer, or just stick

to web based tools which are presented here on the right hand side.

So web based tools are lovable.

Firebase Studio, Bold zero from Vercel and many, many others.

So let me just give you an example of what a web based tool is and how it looks like so that you have

a brief idea.

So in this case I'm going to demonstrate here briefly lovable.

And all these tools are excellent for creating beautiful front ends without you having to install any

tools or leave your browser.

So you'll need to do is provide a prompt here.

You can even attach here an image or a figma design.

And you can easily create an app.

So just to show you an example, I have created here a small application which helps me learn a few

Spanish words.

And this is what I used to get started.

So I just specified here an initial prompt, which is anyway not ideal, but this is the interface that

has been created.

So it has been built a front end that I would need a lot of time to replicate.

And I can continue the conversation and improve this app and make it better.

So there's a lot of possibility by using one of these apps and it's all integrated.

So this is also deployed.

I can just use a domain from lovable a lot of options there.

And there's also the possibility of viewing here the code.

If you're a bit more technical, you want to see exactly what has happened.

It's also possible to integrate this with GitHub.

So if you have a GitHub account, you want to sync your code there.

That's also possible.

And not only that, it's also a good idea to look into additional integrations.

For example, Supabase is something that allows you to add data storage or other backend capabilities

so things that a normal application also needs.

It's just about building a front end, which is absolutely fine.

We're also building more advanced applications, and I think this is a great starting point for many

people.

If you still don't want to leave your browser, but you're looking for something slightly more advanced,

Firebase Studio from Google has been recently launched.

It provides even more functionality, but sometimes, especially for beginners, more is not always

better.

So just keep that in mind.

So in a nutshell, if you're a beginner and you want to do everything from your browser, start with

one of these apps.

I think loveable is a great place to start.

But if you're a bit more adventurous and are used to solving problems on your own, You can go for any

of the tools on the left hand side.

So we have here a few options available.

I'm going to start here with ID extensions.

So any ID that you're currently using, whether it's Visual Studio Code or something else as the possibility

of adding extensions or plugins.

And there are a lot of options here available.

GitHub Copilot is one of these tools that has been on the market for a long time, and they've also

recently added this agent mode, which is pretty good actually.

We also have windsurf, which is available also as an extension, and also many other options.

So there are a few options right here.

So if you just want to get started with something, choose either GitHub Copilot or Windsurf in terms

of an extension.

However, if you want to get a full IDE which has all these features already enabled and added, you

want to look here at this part.

Full Ides or Visual Studio Code forks.

Because all the options that we have here have been forked from Visual Studio, which is created by

Microsoft.

So we have here in this category cursor windsurf and also more recently tray.

So in terms of tool recommendation cursor or windsurf they are both excellent tools tools that we're

going to discuss also throughout this course.

And these are a great starting point.

So choose any of the options that you think are best for you.

There's also a very small category.

These are CLI tools.

More recently OpenAI released Codex CLI.

Honestly I'm not so impressed.

We're going to look into this a bit later in the course.

It's not a big category.

It's not something that I would recommend looking into.

If you're just getting started.

There are many more exciting tools that are available there.

Now, the idea of IDE extensions and also of this Visual Studio Code works, is that you have more control

over the application that you're building.

You're not constrained to a specific tool or a specific technology that's being used.

And this is great.

But with more power also comes more responsibility.

So these are tools that I recommend for people who are a bit more experienced, or for people who want

to learn software development and are willing to experiment a bit.

Now, regardless of the tools you decide to use, keep in mind that it's relatively easy to use the

skills you have learned with a particular tool, and apply those skills to any other tools that you

see out here.

So throughout the course, even if a section focuses on a specific tool, the ideas apply to other tools

as well.

So don't skip something because you think, oh, this is talking about herself, for example.

And I want to use lovable.

And that's not really relevant for me.

Actually it is up to a certain degree.

So you're going to see here in the course that many of these concepts can be applied to many other tools.

So that is it in terms of orientation.

And these are my recommendations.

And if you have any questions about this, feel free to drop a question in the Q&A below this lecture.

I'm more than happy to help out.

powiadomienie o informacji
Zaplanuj czas na naukę
Wiedza zdobywana codziennie po trochu kumuluje się. Z badań wynika, że osoby, które wyrobiły w sobie nawyk uczenia się, częściej osiągają cele. Zarezerwuj czas na naukę i skorzystaj z przypomnień, używając narzędzia do planowania nauki.
Leverage tools such as Cursor, Windsurf, GitHub Copilot or Lovable to build