17. Rolling back to a working version

Right now we are using git for version control, and we have also added end to end tests to ensure that

the application is working properly.

So let's put everything to a test.

I'm going to ask the agent to purposefully introduce a bug that will break this application, and this

will allow us to run the end to end test and to ensure that they actually fail if there's something

wrong with the application.

And apart from this, what we also want to do is to revert the changes that are happening right now,

just to make sure that in case something bad happens, we know how to revert to a previously working

version.

So it's saying here I've added a bug.

So let's go ahead and test it out.

And I go back to the categories back to home.

And currently you know the home page is not displaying anything.

So everything has disappeared from the home page.

Okay.

So let's go ahead and run the end to end test.

So now what we're going to see here is also the end to end tests failing.

And I click here skip and continue.

And we're going to get here the HTML report in a different window.

We don't really care about this so much.

So it's absolutely fine for us.

But it's explained here as expected the end to end test fail.

All right.

So in this case we have tested that there's something that doesn't work properly.

Let's see exactly what's happening next.

So it has now fixed the bug by reverting the root path okay.

That's very very nice.

I wanted it to not make any changes altogether.

So this should have allowed us to figure out how to revert these changes altogether.

So I'm going to ask again to introduce a bug that is breaking the application.

So this time it has introduced a different bug.

Of course it would be very nice to manually test it.

tested, run the end to end test to make sure that this bug is indeed as it appears here.

So we see here the flash cards.

We're entering animals, and now the flash card doesn't appear.

So definitely a bug.

Now what can we do?

Well, first of all we could click here on reject.

So that is definitely one option.

We go through the cursor route reject those changes.

And we're going to get back the version that we have.

This particular changes are also available here in Source Components flash card.

And you can see here exactly what has changed.

So this is a comment here.

And we can accept or reject it.

So we can see even at the file level and also at the line level what has changed.

Option number one.

The second option that we have is we have this graphical user interface integration.

If you click on this particular button you're going to see here which changes have been made.

So if you click here on flash card we're going to see here the changes that have been made, and we

can simply click on this button here.

This card changes and if you click on this, this change will go away.

The application will work again just as before.

And third option is to simply ask the agent to discard any changes.

So you can see here discard any changes that are multiple ways on how we can go back to a previously

working version.

And in this case it's going to restore the last commit.

These changes are going to disappear and the application itself should be working again.

So you're going to see here it's working without any issues.

So this is how we can roll back to a specific version in this case to a previous version.

We also have a list of all the commits and all the changes that we made so far.

We can also revert to a specific version if we want to do so, and we can do this relatively easily

by talking directly to the agent.