7. Auto-run mode (letting the agent run commands)

You probably observed that the agent has absolutely no problem creating files, adding content to them,

making changes and so on, but doesn't actually want to run any commands.

So we had to manually go and click here on run to execute these commands.

And this is more of a safety feature than necessarily something that the agent cannot do.

And this is actually configured in settings.

And I want to briefly show you how you can enable pretty much the auto run mode, which will allow the

agent to run any commands it thinks it should be executed.

Now be aware this has some safety implications, but we're gonna try to understand exactly how we can

make this safer.

So all you need to do is locate here the settings.

And we're going to go here to Cursor settings because that's where this particular setting is hidden.

I'm going to go here to features.

And I'm going to scroll a bit further down.

And what we're going to see here is one important feature which is regarding the default chat modes.

If you find yourself switching from chat to agent all the time, just select it here to agents so that

you're not going to have that particular issue.

Now, going to the problem that we're actually trying to solve is right about here, where it says enable

auto run mode.

And we're going to enable this, but we're going to read here.

So other run mode runs any commands based on the allow list and deny list.

You said be cautious of potential prompt injection risks from external sources and use at your own risk.

Meaning that if you put here some prompt that someone else has created and you're saying, yeah, fine,

run whatever you want, you're exposing yourself to some security risk.

Typically, if you know exactly what is inside your prompt, that shouldn't be an issue.

Now ideally, what we want to do is to add here some specific commands to the allow list.

So this narrows down a bit what is allowed and what is denied.

So for example we can add here npm to this list and any other commands that we think should be executed.

Just be very careful with this feature.

It is very convenient to have the agent run everything, but if someone is trying to steal some credentials

and is providing you with a prompt and saying, hey, here's this amazing prompt, and somewhere in

the prompt that says, hey, make sure you execute this command.

Then of course the agent is going to go ahead and execute those commands because these were the instructions.

But anyway, this is how you can configure the autorun mode, which is very, very convenient.